# Kent-County-Delinquents-Finder
Pulls property information from the Kent County Website so that tax delinquent properties can be identified.


## Description
From the search tool that is available on https://www.accesskent.com/Property/search.do: A street range is entered, and a list of parcels numbers with links to property information are returned. By referencing the street directory, the program can search all addresses and therefore find all parcel numbers in Kent County. It then loads the data that is retrieved into a MySQL database. In this demo version, which you are free to clone and test out for yourself, the data is exported as a .csv named 'FinalData.csv'. If you wish to preview what the final result looks like you can view that file (It may look like some records are missing data but if you click into the cell you will see the data, some additional formatting is required after the csv is exported but that has yet to be built in). 


## Instructions
1) To run the web scraper, navigate to the project directory and type 'node KCscraperJS.js' and hit enter.
2) You will see a window pop up and a parcel number will be entered in to the form on https://www.accesskent.com/Property/search.do
3) Once the parcel number is entered, you will have to manually check the "I am not a robot" ReCAPTCHA Checkbox and solve the puzzle.
4) The program is waiting for 20 seconds while you complete the puzzle, once you get the green checkbox do not click the search button. Just wait and the program will take it from there.
5) The program will loop through each of the parcel numbers in the referenced file, appending property data every 20 parcel numbers to the 'AllData.txt' file
6) For now, you will have to keep track of where you left off if you wish to start/restart the program at different indexes in the reference file. 
7) Once you have collected some data, in order to process it you will need to run the 'processData.py' file.
8) 'processData.py' previously cleaned and exported the data to a MySQL Database, but has since been modified to instead export the data to the 'FinalData.csv' file. This is partially because it is easier to demo and partially because the webscraper has been modified to scrape additional data that hasn't been worked into the SQL insert queries yet. 


## Notes
*The latest version of this project no longer references the street directory, instead the parcel numbers from each property are substitued into the URL*

*This Web Scraper was created using the Node.js Puppeteer library and headless chrome. I also have a version that is built with Pyppeteer (Python port of Puppeteer)*

*This program has provided real world value, I have been able to sell the list generated by this software on the West Michigan Wholesale Real Estate Facebook Page.*

*The most recent version of this program can now successfully bypass the reCAPTCHA that was added to the search tool in 2021.* 
